**COMP 585 \- Assignment 0: Team Formation \- Group 6** 

## **Deliverable**

1. What are the expectations of each team member towards developing and completing the project?   
   Throughout the course, we expect every member of the team to contribute their effort to their assigned tasks and team roles. When doing the project, each deliverable will be made into equal components and assigned based on interests and strengths during the weekly meetings. For example, some people will be taking on the coding part, while others will take on the writing and presenting part of the project. Also, we will assign specific roles to each team member. We have decided that one person should take on the Devil’s Advocate role to speak up when needed. We will also have one facilitator to organize the work and one recorder to summarize weekly meetings. Lastly, the remaining two people will take on the role of exploring new ideas and keeping track of the deadlines for each deliverable.   
2. How often and where will the team meet? What are the responsibilities of each team member during the meetings?  
   We are expecting to meet every week after the lecture as a team to facilitate task distribution, exchange of information, progress checking, and to collaborate on certain tasks if necessary. Other than in-person meetings, we will also communicate using a Slack group chat. We expect members to respond within a few hours on weekdays and within a day on weekends to ensure smooth communications. Before each team meeting, all team members are expected to understand what needs to be done during the meeting. Everyone is also expected to read through and review the prior work done by other people and prepare any questions or opinions they may have. During the meeting, we expect all team members to be respectful of everyone’s ideas and contribute meaningfully to help the group come to the best decision possible. Lastly, everyone also has the responsibility to speak up if they have something to say and to encourage others to talk.  
3. How will internal deadlines be set, managed, and followed?   
   	We have decided that ideally, everyone should finish their work one week prior to the deadline for each deliverable. This is because we want to have time before the final submission for everyone to review the work, provide feedback, and make changes. To manage these deadlines, each team member will update the team about their progress during each week’s meeting so that the team can adjust the deadline depending on the situation. Everyone in the team should understand that these deadlines need to be followed since a delay in one component will impact the progress of the whole team. To allow people to better follow the deadline, it is mentioned earlier that two of the team members will be keeping track of the deadlines and reminding everyone of any upcoming deadlines.   
4. What are the mechanisms to resolve potential disagreements and conflicts?   
   For dealing with potential disagreements and conflicts, we have agreed as a team that everyone can raise concerns freely in the Slack group chat. When a concern is raised, there should be a discussion among all the team members to come up with a solution that everyone is satisfied with. Also, the weekly meetings can be used to have a dedicated time to communicate with everyone on the team to help avoid conflicts. In certain circumstances, if a team member doesn’t feel comfortable bringing up the topic themselves, then they may ask any other team member to raise the issue on their behalf anonymously.   
5. Dealing with the Unexpected  
   Suppose anyone in the team faces any surprises, such as having some family emergencies to resolve, the first thing they should do is to communicate the issue with teammates in the Slack group chat as soon as it’s known or realized, so that everyone can be aware of the issue. Furthermore, suppose someone is having a hard time delivering their work due to certain reasons, the team will discuss possible ways to reduce the workload of that person without creating too much imbalance, such as transferring or dividing up the extra work among the entire team. If the problem cannot be resolved or cannot be completed in time, the team will brainstorm and decide together on an alternative approach to tackle it.   
 


